Welcome back agent Let's discuss geographical plotting with Python.
There are many ways to plot geographical maps in Python and no single library will be able to create
every possible geographical plot for the upcoming mission.
We need a method to plot longitude in latitudes for plotting out launch toon latitude coordinates.
A good choice is the Boka library.
This is a library designed to create interactive visualizations of Python.
It can also be used in conjunction with the Google Maps API to plot out points on a map.
You can zoom in and out of just like it could on a normal Google Maps Web site.
Let's explore how to use Bocca and the Google Maps API to plot out longitude and latitude coordinates
onto a map in order to use boka.
Make sure you install at your command line by running Pipp install Bocca at your command line.
Let's get started.
Let's begin by taking a look at the example CXXVI file will be using for our actual data inside of the
violent mission folder.
You can import C S V and there's a countries that CSB file.
So I will open it with open countries see the as f.
I will say file is equal to C-s the reader with and then for a row in that file that it just created.
I will print out the row and this will allow us to view that actual CFE file printed row by row and
it also close it because I am using the with command and it looks like we have a country a latitude
longitude and then the name of the country.
What we're going to be doing is plenty out this latitude and longitude points in order to do that.
What we need is to grab all of these points as integers into a list.
So we're going to comment all of this out and then create two lists latitudes
and longs so lots and longs and where basically going to be running the same code.
Let's grab this code again copy it down here.
But instead of printing rows what we're going to be doing is the following will be using tuple and packing
in this row.
To say a B last long name because that is the exact same way that came out in the row you had the abbreviation
the latitude longitude and then the name of the country.
And in this case we'll say list a file in order to do that tuple unpacking.
Really it's less than packing and then we don't want the header file so we will say start at row 1 and
go all the way to the end
that inside of this loop will append the floats of the latitude of value and then we will append the
float of the launch to the value.
Run that and you should be able to see your latitudes now as floats as well as your longitudes commet
that out.
And now it's time to use boka.
The next step is to begin using Bocca.
Recall that Boka is an interactive plotting library for visualization with Python.
And we'll be using the specific geographical plotting capabilities of this library to map out our list
of longitudes and latitudes in order to use Bocca for this sort of geographical plotting.
You're also going to need to grab a developer key for Google Maps and it's free of any G-mail account
and the link is available to you in a notebook that corresponds to this lesson.
And if you go to that link Let's go to it now.
You will see something that looks like this.
Keep in mind even though it says maps javascript API This is the same API key that we'll be using with
Python and Bocca you'll click here on get key.
It will ask you to select or create a project.
You can't create a new project.
Call it whatever you want or select an old one if you happen to have one there click next and eventually
it will generate a key for you.
Once you have that key copy it because we'll be using it later on.
Let's come back here and begin our geographical plotting.
We're going to be doing a lot of imports that we don't really need to actually dive deep into what they
do.
We just need to actually import them the first set of imports is going to be from Boca.
So import output file and then show that's going to allow us to create an output file for our actual
map.
And then also be able to show our map.
And because the maps interactive it's going to open in a new tab in our browser then once you've done
that we need to say from Boca that models import.
And this is we're going to import our actual mapping capabilities.
The first one will be map plot and then also Geum map options.
So the map plot allows actually plot a Google map g map options allows us to kind of edit around the
options about where the map actually starts and then we need to import just a couple of more things.
One is column data source another is circle because we want to draw little circles in the map and then
some of these we may or may not use but they're combin imports will go ahead and do them anyways and
as quick trick one imports over multiple lines you can just wrap them in parentheses.
So we have the map plot GM map options column data source circle range one d the pan tool the wheel
zoom tool
and then box select tool.
And those last couple of ones those are tools that will show up on the map that allow you to do things
like draw a box on a map or zoom in and out of the map using the mouse wheel or run those imports.
Now it's time to actually start choosing the starting latitude and longitude.
Basically the center of the map we do that through the map options that we just imported.
We type out map options GM map options and we pass in the starting latitude longitude points.
So LHC is equal to zero.
LNG is equal to zero and then the zoom level will say three.
You can play around these values.
But basically this is where we're going to center our map at longitude latitude values of 0 and then
we will have levels zoom be equal to 3.
You can increase or decrease it depending on how zoomed into the map you want to be when you actually
run this because we have the wheel zoom tool.
We'll be able to zoom out ourselves later on.
We have our map options set.
It's time to actually create the plot.
We will say plot is equal to g mat or G map plots.
We need to find the x range equal to range 1 the and also the fine y range equal to range 1 the.
And then the map options parameter is equal to the map options you just created so we can run that and
then offer this plot object we can say plot title text is equal to and this is whatever you want to
call your plot.
We'll call this example plot.
And then finally we're going to need to set our plot API Ickey we will say plot dot API key is equal
to and then go ahead and copy and paste your Google API key there.
So for instance I can say have an input here API key.
Run this and I will pay Sinema API key and then select enter and now its time to actually draw our points
onto the map we just created we will say source is equal to and will be using column data source here.
And then we will do the following data is equal to a dictionary call where Latt is equal to Latz an
L O N is equal to Longs and that's what we're going to be providing.
So we'll put in a new line here and makes this all goes in the same cell.
Otherwise you make errors.
Well the circle is equal to that circle import we did well say X is a string long.
Why is the string Latz.
And here you can play around the sizes so we'll say size 15.
You can also play around with the fill color.
So the stakes and basic strings that represent the basic colors basically any Crayola colors such as
red green blue will say the colors red.
You can also indicate a fill alpha so that just basically indicates the transparency of the dots that
we were going to plot.
And then if you want a line color you can add one in but we'll just go ahead and say that's all we want.
Then in the same cell will plot add glyph
and we'll say source and circle.
This basically adds these what are called glyphs of the plot the circles themselves.
So we're adding on the circles and then we're also going to add on the tools plot tools.
And these are the tools that we imported earlier things like the pan tool the wheels zoom tool and the
box select tool.
I will copy and paste all these here.
Into ad tools.
And we actually need to add instances of them.
So we need to actually call them.
So at an open and close parentheses at the end of these.
And then you can say output file and we'll call this my example GM map plot h T.M..
So create a little steam l file and then we're going to call show the actual plot.
So let's run this again to make sure this all goes in the same cell.
And when you run that you should get a new tab open and something that looks like this he Rikan see
we went ahead and plotted all the points and these points what they actually represent are just from
the United Nations.
It's essentially a point at around the center of every country in the world.
So here we see all the points around the countries of the world.
If you go back and forth really fast sometimes it takes a little while to catch up with the API so we
can see here it takes a little time to catch up.
But go ahead just move it around and eventually it will get unstuck and you can also check out the tools
here such as box select.
If you only want to highlight certain points of the map or if you want to zoom in and out you can use
the wheel zoom here.
So it's a wheel zoom tool and you can use that to zoom in or zoom out.
All right.
That's the basics of plotting with Python and Bocca as long as you have the Google Maps API.
It should have all worked for you.
Let's quickly review what we did.
We'll scroll back up here.
The first part which is getting the data.
So oftentimes we'll have that data in a CXXVI file.
Eventually what you need to do is create a list a python list the latitudes and a python list the longitudes
with the data as floating point numbers.
So if you're reading it in the CSC file it will probably be read in automatically as a string.
So you can go ahead and use the float function that's built into Python to convert those into floating
point numbers.
Once you've done that you'll want to do your imports from book at the ISO that's output file and show
in order to show the file and create the HTL file at the end and then from both models.
Import these useful functions.
Then you set your map options set starting latitude and longitude and then the zoom level you can play
around with those.
Then the next step is actually create the plot we call GM map plot passen x range in y range as instances
of this range one the shift tab here if it's in range when the basically just says that it's continuous
scalar dimension in the x axis and y axis of the map and then we have the map options equal to the map
options you created before then if you want to set the text title you can do that right here.
Set your API key to the Google Maps API and then make sure the rest of this all goes in a single cell.
You set your source for the column data you pass in your lab Tizen longitudes in the sort of dictionary
format.
Then you indicate where you want circles.
There's other things complot like squares and triangles.
But the basic one is just plot circles say Xs l o n y is l t.
Set the size you can play around with that fill color.
Play around with that and the fill alpha player on that as well and that actual glyph that is the source
and circle.
So it matches up these circles to every source every latitude longitude coordinate.
Then we add the tools that is the pan tool the wheels zoom tool in the box select tool.
We create our output file and then we show the plot.
So we can see something that looks like this at the end of the day ok.
Hopefully that's enough for you to continue on your mission.
We'll see you there agent.